some of y'all don't read books and I
don't mean that as an insult but it's
really part of the background to the
ongoing debates and controversies on
this channel I said a long time ago in
an interview with vegan cheetah back
when he was a friend of mine that I do
not think that books and magazine
publications are all that important to
what's going on in veganism animal
rights etc I think I've got to take this
jacket off I'm cold
it's cold as hell in here but I don't
know if I can get through this broadcast
with the overcoat on whoo brisk could
mean winter um I think it's
understandable that some people really
do not understand what I'm criticizing
or why I would resort to language such
as talking about stupidity and idiocy
when I'm engaged in the critique of some
of the seemingly respectable academic
publications that come from our would-be
leaders in the animal rights ecology
veganism type of movement um
I don't regret using words like stupid
an idiot I don't regret questioning
aloud whether or not the people who've
ended up for the time being as the
leaders of our movement are idiots
on the contrary I really look back
regrets in my videos where I make more
unbalanced polite and seemingly
flattering statements about their work
because I find their work shockingly
disturbingly dangerously stupid
let's get right to the meat of the thing
here since you know I'm talking about
we're not just trading in
generalizations I'm gonna read you a
quote this is from page 139 of ZOA
Poulos a book that I just did a very
polite sort of critique of a critique
balanced with some flattering things
said about the authors etc as is the
style this is page 139 I think all the
quotes I'm gonna read are from the few
pages following there after say 139 to
169 but I did not note down the page
number in every case here page 139 the
authors of zoella swill chemica and sue
Donaldson speculate quote this does not
mean that there will be no cows just not
very many there will always be people
who want to have cow companions or pig
companions but the reality is that since
these animals are less you
full under non exploitive conditions few
of them would be brought into the
human-animal community on the other hand
cautious commercialization of the use of
cow's milk could lead it to becoming a
luxury good resulting in a limited but
stable cow community why would anyone in
veganism and am rights be positively
speculating about encouraging cautious
commercialization of cow's milk in order
to try to maintain a stable population
of cattle on planet earth it's surreal
it's bizarre it's idiotic
I will continue still reading from the
same page under the heading use of
animal labor so far we have focused on
cases in which humans benefit from using
animals engage in doing what they do
naturally eating grass growing will hurt
me eating grass growing wool producing
manure eggs and milk so this is polite
code for they've been talking about
excuses for non vegan what I would
consider exploited of an immoral
relations for human animals but I
digress
I shouldn't insert my glossing much here
by the way that the code I just took off
I know it looks a little bit ridiculous
this contains no wool it is hard as hell
to buy respectable-looking menswear in
China that does not contain wool sheep's
wool is the you know every every brand
of clothing tries to do sheep's wool to
raise the price and perceive value of
the clothing they're making it was hard
as hell for me to get winter clothes
that do not contain sheets well but I do
it because it's the [ __ ] principle of
the thing all right
continuing here a different form of use
involves training animals to perform
various kinds of work for humans such as
assistance and therapy training for dogs
or police training for horses it's not
really stating honestly indirectly what
the [ __ ] it is they're trying to say
here like they must know that vegans are
going to be reading this with
to blanch expression what the [ __ ] are
you doing why are you making excuses for
wool animal manure eggs chicken eggs cow
milk and now training dogs and horses
what why is this even on the table why
this this being negotiated it's not like
the other side is offering you something
in negotiations it's not like the
mediating majority are sitting down and
saying okay we'll all stop eating beef
as long as you vegans agree to allow egg
and milk production under some Cyril as
long as you vegans allow police to ride
horses the group cheating this there
there are there's no reason to make
these concessions either it's the
principle thing like I think in
principle police should not use horses
I've never I mean look I've never heard
someone making argument akin to the fact
that the military really does need to
use aircraft carriers therefore police
really do need use horse horses are just
not that useful for police work I'm sure
police do all kinds of immoral things
because it's really necessary it's a
life and death situation I do not think
horses are but why even pretend we're in
a situation of negotiating these things
ridiculous
okay sorry still still reading the quote
here there are some jobs that dogs and
other animals can perform without
significant training for example if we
return to sheep ville we can imagine
that the community also includes some
dogs or donkeys who help to protect the
sheep this protective behavior is a
natural instinct much nurtured by
selective breeding of certain dogs that
does not require much training
end quote III don't mean this in an
overly prejudicial way I can't believe a
a vegan would even use the English
language this way the use of language
here is so bizarre that you could have a
community of humans exploiting sheep for
wool production that includes dogs to
help protect the sheep
this protective behavior is a natural
instinct much nurtured by selective
reading of certain dog breeds so what
you are vegan but you support selective
reading of the table if I was reading
this in in a pro meat-eater magazine if
I was reading this why would this even
be discussed or debated within our
movement to me this is so off the wall
this is so beyond the limits of what
would and it's stupid and the
fundamental problem I you know I know
some people are some people are you know
object to my use of language like you
stupid idiot etc etc but I'm just being
honest with you my reaction to this is
to say I do think stupidity is the
fundamental problem here it's not a
problem of political biases like okay
I'm sorry I did not note down the page
for this I think this is from a few
pages after the court I've just read you
continuing from Zoo apples but this is
a few pages later as I recall quote what
about other animal products such as eggs
and milk as in the case of sheep the
dangers here rapidly escalate with
commercialization if chickens or cows
are brought into the world in order to
derive profit from their eggs or milk
this will almost certainly entail
sacrificing their basic rights currently
the egg system involves not only
horrific confinement and abuse of hens
but the killing of male chicks and the
killing of hens when their egg
production levels off all of which is
needed to sustain profitability but let
us imagine citizen chickens pause yes
that's right they just said citizen
chickens and they're not using the
concept of citizen chickens to validate
veganism they're going to use the
concept of citizen chickens to offer a
justification for human beings eating
eggs for exploitation of chickens right
um I have to return to reading this
creation quote this is published by
Oxford University Press
this is suppose this is not durianrider
talking salaried professors publishing
supposedly academic discourse at the
ultra elite level of our supposed
intellectual leadership in this movement
yes I need to use words like stupid and
yes in my first video that people
ignored the content of where I for 20
minutes I did mention Nina and Randa but
I also mentioned you know will chemica
and the world peace diet by will Tuttle
and Gary Yourofsky I mentioned so many
names the video I was expressing sincere
concern that the leaders of our movement
the people have ended up in leadership
positions who've ended up being
published by Oxford University Press I
am concerned that these people are
idiots alright let's continue reading
here but let us imagine citizen chickens
whose rights are fully protected and who
enjoy the same rights as other citizens
should be supported in leading a
flourishing life domesticated hens
produce many eggs they could be allowed
to incubate some fertilized eggs and
have the opportunity to raise young and
yet still have many surplus eggs indeed
it is possible to identify the sex of
embryos in the egg and to allow hens to
incubate females only or primarily Oh
stupid okay is it wrong for humans to
use these surplus eggs question mark
or to feed them to their cats as
discussed below
Suri's citizen chickens living in
chicken poo coops producing eggs for
human consumption or for humans to feed
to their pet cats of sorry I digress I
digress ok let's can you understand why
use words like stupid an idiot when I
talk about the discourse going on within
veganism 2006 kitty can you can you
sympathize with why I rely on these
course crude offensive words when
addressing my fellow intellectuals in
the movin ah at Farm Sanctuary
consistent with their position on wool
human consumption of eggs is forbidden
instead they are fed back to the
chickens
no comment they feed the eggs back to
the chickens I will make no comment
we would argue analogously to the wool
discussion the human use of eggs is not
inherently exploitative humans could
have chicken companions on the farm or
in large backyards chickens with
flourishing lives allowed plenty of
scope to do what chickens like to do
chickens who explore and play and form
social plants and raise young under the
watchful eyes of humans who protect them
shelter them and care for their food and
medical needs and meanwhile humans could
consume some of the chickens eggs
does anyone want to have this debate
does that want to have an academic
conference or vegan step this is oh my
god um it's true that this relationship
would in part be based on use that is
many humans who would choose to have
chicken companions would do so at least
in part because they want some eggs but
this fact of use need not compromise the
full protection of chickens rights and
community membership as in the sheep
case our primary concern would be to
ensure that mechanisms exist to protect
their rights yeah you know what um maybe
I'm a bad person because I talk about
this in a disrespectful or dismissive or
contemptuous way a contemptuous way
maybe I'm a bad person
because I laugh and I use such vulgar
language as stupid an idiot maybe you
know what maybe maybe keeping it real is
going wrong in my case maybe I should
come on here and fake it and pretend to
have so much respect for people in these
leadership positions in our movement
maybe you know maybe I'm maybe I'm doing
it wrong maybe I'm a bad person
but at least I'm not a [ __ ] idiot